Add docs to suspend and resume manage instances (#1997)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/departments/product-engineering/engineering/cloud/delivery/managed/suspend_process.md

# Suspending a managed instance

> This page documents how suspension of managed instances are done for [managed instances](./index.md). This is useful when Sales team would like to re-engage a customer at a later and they already have a managed instance provisioned. We will tear off most resources while still keeping the persistent data (disk snapshot) around.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page documents how suspension of managed instances are done for [managed instances](./index.md). This is useful when Sales team would like to re-engage a customer at a later date and they already have a managed instance provisioned. We will tear down most resources while still keeping the persistent data (disk snapshot) around.
```

- [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/)

Many of the following commands in this guide, as well as the commands [operations](./operations.md), use environment variables. Export the appropriate values for the upgrade so you don't lose track:

```sh
# name of customer deployment (should match folder)
export CUSTOMER=<customer_or_instance_name>
export CURRENT_DEPLOYMENT=$(gcloud compute instances list --project=sourcegraph-managed-${CUSTOMER} | grep -v "executors" | awk 'NR>1 { if ($1 ~ "-red-") print "red"; else print "black"; }')
```

Make sure your copy of the [`deploy-sourcegraph-managed`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-managed) repository is up to date:

```sh
git checkout main
git pull origin main
```

## Sourcegraph suspend

### 0) Sourcegraph suspend setup

**Follow the [general setup](#general-setup) guide.** Then, set up the appropriate version variables:

Make sure to use the same shell for all the commands in this guide unless otherwise stated.

Now start a branch for your upgrade:

```sh
git checkout -b $CUSTOMER/suspend-instance
# all the below steps are documented assuming you are in the customer deployment directory
cd $CUSTOMER
```

> ### 1) Mark the database as ready-only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1) Mark the database as read-only
```

```sh
../util/set-db-readonly.sh $CURRENT_DEPLOYMENT true
```

### 2) Create a snapshot of the current deployment

```sh
../util/create-snapshot.ts $CURRENT_DEPLOYMENT
git add . && git commit -m "$CUSTOMER: snapshot deployment"
```

This can take anywhere from a minute to several minutes, depending on how large the disk is.

> Note the number of snapshots in `terraform.tfvars`, and prune snapshots >5 upgrades old where appropriate.

Reviewer: In this situation, we may want to go ahead and remove all snapshots except this last one. I suppose it can't hurt to keep at least one more though. Thoughts?

Author: good point. we don't need all these past snapshots anyway.
